## 2023 March
### 11-1
> total mark: 11

Binary is a number system used by computers.

#### a
> mark: 1

Tick one box to show which statement about the binary number system is correct.
- A It is a base 1 system
- B It is a base 2 system
- C It is a base 10 system
- D It is a base 16 system

#### b
> mark: 3

Denary numbers are converted to binary numbers to be processed by a computer.
Convert these three denary numbers to 8‑bit binary numbers.
- 50
- 102
- 221 

#### c
> mark: 2

Binary numbers are stored in registers.
Negative denary numbers can be represented as binary using two’s complement.
Complete the binary register for the denary number –78
You must show all your working.

Register: 

#### d
> mark: 3

Two 8‑bit binary numbers are given.
Add the two 8‑bit binary numbers using binary addition.
Give your answer in binary. Show all your working.

$$
\begin{array}{ccc}
 & 0 & 0 & 1 & 1 & 0 & 0 & 1 & 1 \\
\text{+} & 0 & 1 & 1 & 0 & 0& 0& 0 & 1 \\
\hline \\
\end{array}
$$

#### e
> mark: 2

Two binary numbers are added by a computer and an overflow error occurs.
Explain why the overflow error occurred.

### 12-2

Binary numbers can be converted to hexadecimal.
#### a
> mark: 4

Convert the two binary numbers to hexadecimal.
- 10010011
- 00001101

#### b
> mark: 2

A value is stored as a binary number in a register
**01111010**
A logical right shift of three places is performed on the binary number.
1. Complete the binary register to show its contents after this logical right shift.
2. State one effect this logical shift has on the binary number.

#### c
> mark: 2

Give two reasons why a programmer may use hexadecimal to represent binary numbers
1. \___
2. \___

#### d
> mark: 2

Denary numbers can also be converted to hexadecimal.
**301**

### 12-3

> mark: 10

When keys are pressed on a keyboard, the text is converted to binary to be processed by the computer.

#### a
Describe how the text is converted to binary to be processed by the computer.
> mark: 3

#### b
> mark: 7

Text that is input into a computer can be stored in a text file.
A text file can be compressed using lossless compression.

1. State what effect this has on the file size.
2. Describe how lossless compression compresses the text file.
3. Give two reasons why the text file may have been compressed.